>> Scott Moss: So now that we know
the order of operations that was ours.
We know arguments and we know that we need
to write them in such a way that they
only return what they're
supposed to return.
I'm gonna give you a query, and
then you're gonna write the resolvers
to make that query possible.
Now this is the only exercise that's
actually gonna require you to
do some type of Mongo.
So if you don't know Mongo that's fine,
just look at the other resolvers cuz
you're pretty much gonna be
doing the exact same thing.
The thing to remember here is that
the models are on the context object, so
context.models.
But there's only two,
there's project and then there's task,
there's only two models that's on there.
And then most of what you'll be doing
is you'll either be doing a find, or
a find by ID or something like that.
And arguments are pretty similar,
you can look at them, and
if you get stuck I will help you out
if this is your first time in Mongo.
You do not need to know Mongo to
do this but can't avoid it for
this exercise because you
got to write the resolvers.
I'm not gonna write the queries for
you, you're not gonna learn that way.
So basically, if you go and
you check out to lesson two.
If you go into project.resolvers@js
you'll see on this
line right here it's a different line
than you because I wrote some code.
You'll see something that says,
resolve some fields here,
that doesn't mean anything right now
cuz I haven't given you the query.
This is where you're gonna be writing
some code, resolve some fields here.
And then inside of task,
task revolvers, you scroll down and
there will also be something in line for
you that says resolve some fields here.
Now what are those fields?
I'm gonna put this query on this page,
I'm gonna pause it then you
gotta get that query to work.
And that's how you have to think
about how you made grapulate the R.
So at least that's how it,
I start with my client or
whatever's gonna consume the API.
I write the query, and I'm like cool,
how do I resolve that on the backend?
Because it's really about how do
you get the data to the client,
it's about how it needs and
how it needs to consume it.
So from that perspective,
you push everything to the backend,
you let it to do it's work and
then by time it comes to the front,
it's exactly the way that it needed it.
So this is a good example of just like
designing GraphQL APIs in my opinion.
All right, so
what I want to be able to do is,
I wanna be able to grab
a project by an ID,
so,
>> Scott Moss: What is it,
projects, inputs?
Actually, let's do a full query here,
call this Projects,
take an input of ProjectInput.
And then what I wanna be able to
do is grab a project by the input,
and that's gonna take input.
And I wanna get the name of the projects,
then I wanna get all the tasks
associated with the project.
And I wanna get the ids,
name of those task,
then I wanna get the project of
those task with the name of them.
Now if you look at this you might
think like the project of this task is
the project before it, right.
Cuz I'm asking for this one project first,
and I want the name of that project.
And then I wanna get all the tasks
associated with that project.
And then I wanna get the project
associated with each one of those tasks,
which would be the project
that came before it.
And this is what I was saying,
it can go on and on.
I could just go on here,
I could like yeah, do this again.
And I just keep going on and
on and on and on.
And this will just be the most ridiculous
query and it will break your system.
It will totally break your system cuz it's
exponential every level you go, right.
If you had 100 tasks, every level I went
down it's exponential every single time,
it's like n squared.
So, yeah you're system would crap out.
Even if you had cache,
it eventually would just crap out.
So you got to find ways around that, but
basically this is what
you're going to make it.
We're not gonna go that deep, so
you need to be able to resolve this.
Most of this is already done for you,
like this project query is done for you.
Like these IDs,
these names are done for you.
What you're gonna be resolving is
most likely this array of tasks.
And then this project
field on the task type,
that's what you're probably gonna resolve.
The thing to note here is that you
probably don't have any projects or
tasks in your database.
So how do you know if this works,
well, you need to crate some first.
Open a new tab and write a new mutation
and create some projects and tasks, and
how do you do that?
Well, you got this
handy-dandy schema right here
that tells you exactly how to do it.
So if I wanted to make a new project,
I can see that a need to run a mutation
called new project with this input,
and that's gonna create a project.
And then if you wanted to create some
tasks, there's a new tasks mutation here
that also says you can make a new task and
it has these inputs.
So, at least make one project cuz you need
one, and then at least make two tasks so
there's an array of tasks.
Maybe you can get away with one task,
and then that should suffice,.
So at least one project, one task,
do a mutation on those two and
then you need to get this query to work.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Why would the frontend
ever want something like that?
>> Scott Moss: The frontend might want
something like this because you can think
about it like, yeah, right?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: You'd be surprised.
So the frontend might want
something like this because,
okay if you have a component architecture
that has a component in the component.
And you just wanna be able to take
the data straight from the result and
pass it right into another component,
right in the template without having
to alter anything you would
want something like this.
And I've actually come into
places where I was, yeah,
I wanted to do something like this.
So, yeah, it's repetitive, and you're
might think like, that's so overkill.
But actually, there's so many things you
could do in a database to optimize this,
that you're gonna find out that it's so
easy, it's like it doesn't matter.
But, yeah, you definitely wouldn't want
something like this a lot of the times.
>> Speaker 3: I've done this a ton.
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: This I'm working on actually
has objects that are embedded
in other objects.
But we need to know about
the parent in order to deduplicate.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly, yeah, that's
another one, deduplicate, yup, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.